# 1 - Introduction to React

Initializing react app:

```bash
npx create-react-app [app-name]
```

Starting local webserver: 
```bash
npm start
```

By default the app runs on localhost port 3000 with the
adress http://localhost:3000

The code of the application resides in the *src* folder. 

## Basic app setup: 

### 'App.js':

This file defines a *React component* with the name App.

```javascript
const App = () => (
        <div>
        <p>Hello world</p>
        </div>
        )

export default App
```

### 'index.js':

The final line renders the the App components content into the div element defined
in the file ```public/index.html```, having the id value ```root```.

```javascript
import React from 'react'
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client'

import App from './App'

ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(<App />)
```


## JSX

It seems like React components are returning HTML markup, however, the layout 
of React components is mostly written usin **JSX**

The JSX returned by the component is compiled into JavaScript using babel. 

It is also possible to write React using pure JavaScript. This however is rarely
done.

In JSX every tag needs to be closed. React components' names has to be capitalized. 
React components (usually) needs to contain *one root-element*, like div. Instead
of a root element it is also possible to use an *array* of components. 

## Multiple components

React components can be used many times and can be used by other components.
By combining components even more complex apps can be made fairly maintainable. 
A core philosophy of React is composing applications from many specialized
components.

```javascript
const Hello = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      <p>Hello world</p>
    </div>
  )
}

const App = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Greetings</h1>
      <Hello />
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Props: Passing data to components

A function defining a component can receive an argument, in this case called
'prop', which can be controlled by the user of the component. 

```javascript
const Hello = (props) => {
    return (
            <div>
            <p>Hello {props.name}</p>
            </div>
           )
}
```

```javascript
const App = () => {
    return (
            <div>
            <h1>Greetings</h1>
            <Hello name='George' />
            <Hello name='Daisy' />
            </div>
           )
}
```

There can be an arbitrary amount of props. A props value can be hard-coded, 
or it can be generated by javascript expressions. A value of a prop generated
by javascript requires curly brackets.
